■■■■■
Wafer-Scale Integration of a Large Systolic Array for Adaptive Nulling
CM. Radcr
■ TW arocie docnbas M udMKnin fa* * ta^Nv pnU	pmcaMia
mt specudkzed foe rral^nme actipcrvc. «n*i nulUns vrnmpmrnmrnm «mA nam
tf fivdMn, ijMni ■ ca$et£ the Mmw Uy^Mi	IxymHw
MUSE).2nd wedecree asperifk mi.....in ofMlSE fmU fcpiml fcndin
Eadb pwiriM»>i uses the C«w<n lUim— Digital C«fww fCOHDIQ algorithm and ins been designed jb * sinsye Mymd circuit:. Nmb«t» tit mt> pmoemm working together can update the tH «Wmmt nulling wji^hc? >« the b— of300 new nhmnncni m only 4.7 —c. This update mm wtmU NfM iW billion instructions per mcmnI from • cmmmnnmI praame Fhe caapuMana support 50dBof signal id-—ifciuu ratio SINK) impro' mm m • (Mia i h i far The simple eonneor in Iwwiu fNCMM fmM MUSE t» b» rsa&sed mi a single targe wafer fay using Mnmabk VI51
W" m am WTWm <«iu» of JV rkmmn • subject to undented iMibuu. lueh m jamming plus the thermal nam mi ckK of die //receivers, the interference power can be reduced, relative to the power in tome dewed signal, by forming » tht if Htm output a Mutably weighted sum of the waveforms observed on ail the antenna elements We call this process nulling Usually the choke of suitable weights must be made adoptively The choice of weights that maximizes the signal-co-interfercnce ratio (SINR) observed in the system output is the solution to a well-studied least-squares problem. The number of arithmetic steps required to solve this least-squares problem, for almost any algorithm chosen, is proportional to the cube of the number of antenna elements. Furthermore, because the statistical characteristics of the interference change with time, the adaptive weight determination must be performed repetitively and in teal time.
When the antenna array is on board a satellite, the number of antenna elements that can be nulled in practice is limited by the combination of the real-time requirement driven by satellite motion and the cubic de-
pendent* of d* ceeifwewwil eee «f athpowt weight (kwrmanaMMwv A piwi Madf of wnywil « mi this limit m N • 36. fc—td on an assumed convcn-tmnal digital ujpui plttettMlg uiKittcturt Thn bmm-tioti n not JbmAunt. betatne it depends on the resources we ate willing to allocate to a nulling processor. Using more resources* however. a not an elficient w»v to handle a Urge number of antennas.
In this article wt describe a specialised adaptive-nulling processor, called the Matrix Update Systolic Experiment (MUSE), which is capable of determining the weights for Nm 64 antenna elements. Bccausc of its novel architecture, it can be compactly realized by using rcstructur-abie wafer-scalc integration; the resulting system fits in a 4-in square. MUSE is substantially smaller and lighter than a conventional processor, and it uses substantially less power. Although the MUSE processor is specialized for N • 64 antennas, the MUSE design concept can be applied to the design of a similar processor for an antenna array with a different number of elements.
We briefly explain the mathematics of adaptive null-
»««« < vjvim i mi -m tiKom tuouion joumiii 3