Wafer-Scale Integration of a Large Systolic Array for Adaptive Nulling
CM- Rader
1 This arode duaibti n miumruw fee a tagMf pMiitl tyi—i rf ywc—n At are spcciaksed for real amr mU^mim imuu nufim|computioonft«idi M0f Jiyui of firwfani TWis ymm is aM fkc VUon Update Sjmlc f ifirft MUSE,. and doenbe a «pco6c raaiiaaoo* of MUSE for	of fr«do«»t
Each pcocfor —cs At Gwufcim Rattoow Df»tii CMnpuuooa tCOiDIO algpw irina aad im been dayad m a wmtfs init|nrr<l orcuac. Nivif« soeh irking ■ l pi 'fi 1 can up dase the 64^cmm miHin| wcifho w At bans of300 new obtervaooro er only 6>7 mk. This update mc	Nfvt lU
biKnn matructiom per mood from a owmcttoomi prorr—r TW cMfMMMi support 50 dB of yrf so wiim imi raoo (SINK) HHfMHMM HI ft uddobe ranrrfcrr. TW anyif conoecarvrrv between piwiwon pcrrruti MUSE to be ndaedi on a angle ky wafer by using miwaanbit VLSL
WHEN an antenna ajumt of ifV tioncno £§ subject to undesned inntiiticncc. such as jamming plus die thermal none in each of (he N receivers, die interference power can be reduced, itiaove to die power in some desired signal, by forming as die spurn output a suitably weighted Him of the waveforms observed on all the antenna dements. We call dus process milling. Usually the choice of suitable weighs must be made adaptivdy. The choice of weights chat maximizes the signal -to-1 nterference ratio (SINR) observed in die system output is the solution to a weli-sfudkd least-squares problem. The number of arithmetic steps required to solve this least-squares problem, for almost any algorithm chosen, is proportional to the cube of the number of antenna elements. Furthermore, because the statistical characteristics of the interference change with time, the adaptive weight determination must be performed repetitively and in real time.
When the antenna array is on board a satellite, the number of antenna elements that can be nulled in practice is limited by the combination of the real-time requirement driven by satellite motion and the cubic de-
pendence of the computational am of adaptive weight determination. A ptcrous study of computational cost set dus but at N* 26, based on an assumed conventional digital signal processing architecture. This limitation is not absolute, because tt depends on die resources wt are willing to allocate to a nulling processor. Using mote resources, however, a not an efficient way to handle a large number of antennas.
in this arade we describe a specialized adaptive-nulling processor, catted (he Matrix Update Systolic Experiment (MUSE), which is capable of determining the weights for N» 64 antenna dements. Because of its novel architecture, it can be compactly realoed by using restructur-able wafer-scale integration; the resulting system fits in a 4~in square. MUSE is substantially smaller and lighter than a conventional processor, and it uses substantially less power. Although the MUSE processor is specialized for /V » 64 antennas, the MUSE design concept can be applied to the design of a similar processor for an antenna array wirh a different number of dements.
We briefly explain the mathematics of adaptive null-
#&«*( * ttmfl f 991 *«£ iXCOlk UtOMTOt* j&ttU 3