Wafer-Scale Integration of a Large Systolic Array for Adaptive Nulling
C.M. Rader
B This article describes an architecture for a highly parallel system of processors that are specialized for real-time adaptive antenna nulling computations with many degrees of freedom. This system is called the Matrix Update Systolic Experiment (MUSE), and we describe a specific realization of MUSE for 64 degrees of freedom. Each processor uses the Coordinate Rotation Digital Computation (CORDIC) algorithm and has been designed as a single integrated circuit. Ninety-six such processors working together can update the 64-element nulling weights on the basis of300 new observations in only 6.7 msec. This update rate would require 2.88 billion instructions per second from a conventional processor. The computations support 50 dB of signal-to-interference ratio (SINR) improvement in a sidelobe canceler. The simple connectivity between processors permits MUSE to be realized on a single large wafer by using restructurable VLSI.
WHEN AN ANTENNA ARRAY of N elements IS subject to undesired interference, such as jamming plus the thermal noise in each of the N receivers, the interference power can be reduced, relative to the power in some desired signal, by forming as the system output a suitably weighted sum of the waveforms observed on all the antenna elements. We call this process nulling. Usually the choice of suitable weights must be made adaptively. The choice of weights that maximizes the signal-to-interference ratio (SINR) observed in the system output is the solution to a well-studied least-squares problem. The number of arithmetic steps required to solve this least-squares problem, for almost any algorithm chosen, is proportional to the cube of the number of antenna elements. Furthermore, because the statistical characteristics of the interference change with time, the adaptive weight determination must be performed repetitively and in real time.
When the antenna array is on board a satellite, the number of antenna elements that can be nulled in practice is limited by the combination of the real-time requirement driven by satellite motion and the cubic de-
pendence of the computational cost of adaptive weight determination. A previous study of computational cost set this limit at N « 26, based on an assumed conventional digital signal processing architecture. This limitation is not absolute, because it depends on the resources we are willing to allocate to a nulling processor. Using more resources, however, is not an efficient way to handle a large number of antennas.
In this article we describe a specialized adaptive-nulling processor, called the Matrix Update Systolic Experiment (MUSE), which is capable of determining the weights for jV= 64 antenna elements. Because of its novel architecture, it can be compactly realized by using restructurable wafer-scale integration; the resulting system fits in a 4-in square. MUSE is substantially smaller and lighter than a conventional processor, and it uses substantially less power. Although the MUSE processor is specialized for N = 64 antennas, the MUSE design concept can be applied to the design of a similar processor for an antenna array with a different number of elements.
We briefly explain the mathematics of adaptive null-
«oitvi« ««•<« •	i»wm*wt mm. 3