Feature
MANUFACTURING
Ceramic Microstructural Analysis
^ Quality Control
Proper procedures are required for correct interpretation. Guidelines are given for a variety of materials.
Donald C. Zipperian,* Stephanie Chanat,* and Anne Trujillo'
BUEHLER Southwest Research Center, Tucson, Arizona 85712
Microstructural analysis of advanced ceramics and composites provides valuable product control and reliability information. However, correct interpretation is dependent upon correct micro-structural preparation procedures. A properly prepared surface will exhibit true sample integrity (i.e., removal of all preparation-induced damage).
For brittle materials, such as monolithic ceramics and ceramic matrix composites (CMCs), traditional cutting, grinding, and polishing operations generally are unable to produce true sample integrity. The major problem lies in the production of unnecessary surface and subsurface damage. Successful microstruc-
'Mcrnbar, American Ceramic Society.
tural analysis requires the proper choice of abrasive type, size, and bonding characteristics, as well as correct machining speeds, relative directions, and applied loads.
Sample Preparation
To properly prepare materials for microstructural analysis, all surface and subsurface damage must be removed. For ceramics, surface damage is characterized by either gjrain pullout or scratches. Subsurface damage is harder to identify, but usually takes the form of subsurface cracks or grain fracture.
Indentation studies by Lawn et al. reveal that abrasive interaction with the surface is dependent upon both the abrasive shape (sharp or blunt indentation) and its bonding characteristics (rigid or loose). For ceramics, a sharp abrasive (indenter) tends to produce less seme-
Table I. Structural Ceramics — Preparation Guidelines
Atmv*
Aftrmw
Diamond
nam	Purpose	bOOOOQ	surface	abraa*e aoe
	Ocon a representative section	i Fhmd	Metal bonded wneel	uem dapstdanf Sanaa 10,11 or20*
^Ww gnmSng	AMquM stock mnowi (wmm rfwiQsl	H FflM	Hard platen surface	15-45IMW
Saieple ^aaerey	MQfl noes WUMI • Tic»wwd demegsi ssteartQ daeiej	P«ed Seeviaed	landed aOreamm dmka Medium to wH $mm surfaces er nerd napieaa dedte	
	opaeei	SemMaed to fcae	Depends ea omaic as	o aywn
			oempaeae *ummm	
wuaw
1 flPR •<•• flM SSSnsHfH} CftMMMMMMM
VouM 71 JOT, 1992

tor
I


