I
ROBOTEX: An Autonomous Mobile Robot for Precise Surveying *
Xavier LEBEGUE and J. K. AGGARWAL Computer and Vision Research Center, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engr., The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712-1084, U.S.A.
Abstract. The RoboTex project aims at automatically constructing an exact CAD representation of buildings using a mobile robot. This paper reports on the current status of the project. The hardware of the robot is described, with special emphasis on issues relating to measurement t accuracy, and algorithms used to process the sequences of monocular images acquired by the robot are presented. Results of automatic indoor surveying are shown and compared to direct measurements in the scene. The techniques developed here have important applications in architectural surveying, scene understanding, and precise robot navigation.
1 Introduction
This paper describes RoboTex, a mobile robot especially designed for building accurate 3-D maps of its environment. The goal of the RoboTex project is to enable a robot to automatically explore a building to construct a very accurate CAD representation. This CAD representation should be as close as possible to what an architect would generate.
Traditionally, the tasks of a robot's perception system are to detect obstacles, find the free space, and estimate the position of the robot in the world. Here, the focus is on building a useful 3-D description of the world. Our 3-D representation of the environment differs primarily from representations used by other robots in that:
1.	It must concentrate on semantically significant features.
2.	It must be more accurate than is strictly necessary for navigation alone.
To satisfy the first constraint, we chose to concentrate on straight edges with particular orientations in the 3-D scene. Typically, there are three prominent 3-D orientations in indoor scenes and outdoor urban scenes: the vertical, and two horizontal orientations perpendicular to each other. Our approach considers only polyhedral objects with such edges. This assumption holds for most large architectural features such as walls, doorways, floors, and ceilings. The second constraint, accuracy, has multiple implications for both the hardware and the software of the robot.
"This research was supported in part by the DoD Joint Services Electronics Program through the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFSC) Contract F49620-89-C-0044, and in part by the Army Research Office under contract DAAL03-91-G-0050.