Feature
MANUFACTURING
Ceramic Microstructural Analysis
for Quality Control
Proper procedures are required for correct interpretation. Guidelines are given for a variety of materials.
Donald C. Zipperian,* Stephanie Chanat,* and Anne Trujillo*
BUEHLER Southwest Research Center, Tucson, Arizona 85712
Microstructural analysis of advanced ceramics and composites provides valuable product control and reliability information. However, correct interpretation is dependent upon correct micro-structural preparation procedures. A properly prepared surface will exhibit true sample integrity (i.e., removal of all preparation-induced damage).
For brittle materials, such as monolithic ceramics and ceramic matrix composites (CMCs), traditional cutting, grinding, and polishing operations generally are unable to produce true sample integrity. The major problem lies in the production of unnecessary surface and subsurface damage. Successful microstructural analysis requires the proper choice of abrasive type, size, and bonding characteristics, as well as correct machining speeds, relative directions, and applied loads.
Sample Preparation
To properly prepare materials for microstructural analysis, all surface and subsurface damage must be removed. For ceramics, surface damage is characterized by either grain pullout or scratches. Subsurface damage is harder to identify, but usually takes the form of subsurface cracks or grain fracture.
Indentation studies by Lawn et al. 1-9 reveal that abrasive interaction with the surface is dependent upon both the abrasive shape (sharp or blunt indentation) and its bonding characteristics (rigid or loose). For ceramics, a sharp abrasive (indenter) tends to produce less struc-
*Member, American Ceramic Society.
Table 1. Structural Ceramics — Preparation Guidelines				
Preparation stage	Purpose	Abrasive bonding	Abrasive surface	Diamond abrasive size
Sectioning	Obtain a representative section	Fixed	Metal-bonded wheel	Material dependent Series 10,15, or 20*
Planar grinding	Adequate stock removal (minimal damage)	Free	Hard platen surface	15-45(im
	High stock removal (increased damage)	Fixed	Bonded abrasive disks	40-125 um
Sample integrity	Remove existing damage	Semifixed	Medium-to-soft platen surfaces or hard napless cloths	1-9 um
Polishing	Enhance optical characteristics	Semifixed to free	Depends on ceramic or composite material	0.10-0.25-um diamond or mechanochemtcal abrasives
*BUEHLER, Ltd. designation for abrasive grit size and bonding characteristics.
Volume 71 July, 1992
1077