Progress in Image Understanding at MIT
W. E. L. Grimson, B. K. P. Horn, T. Poggio and staff
MIT A! Lab Cambridge MA 02139
ABSTRACT
Our program m Image Understanding km maintained a primary form on issue* m object recognition, enpfciallg ike problem* of selection, indexing, iciifsry rom^tfi/wn and integration of puual cue*, and a $fa>nd®*y f&em on navigation We have also continued our work on Ike computation and the use of lew level visual cue* tuck a* molten, stereo, color and texture, on analog VLSI ftf» cutis and on learning.
1	Introduction
Image Understanding research at the MIT A1 Lab baa continued along a range of fronts, from low level protesting, such as stereo, motion, color and texture analysis, through intermediate stages of integration of visual information. to higher level tasks such as object recognition and navigation This report summaries our main recent accomplish meats in these areas. As is usual in these reports, we refer interested readers to other publications for more details.
2	Object Recognition
Because if has been one of our central focal points, we begin with our recent work in object recognition. In approaching the problem of recognizing objects from noisy images of cluttered scenes, we have found it convenient to separate out several different aspects of the problem:
•	Selection: Given a large set of image features from a cluttered scene, select (or group) subsets likely to have come from single objects, and use a rank ordering to place the most salient ones first
•	Indexing: Given one of these image feature cub-sets, select a small set of object models from the library that are likely to match the data
•	Matching: Given a data feature subset and an object model, determine if there is a legal transformation that would carry the model into a pose in the image that is consistent with the data, possibly by finding a matching between data and model features. It is often useful to separate this stage into two sub problems:
- Hypothesize possible solutions, using mini* mal model and image information.
- Verify such hypotheses, using more detailed information.
We will describe our recent work; in each of these areas.
2.1 Selection tnd Attention
We have argued for some time that robust and efficient solutions to the selection (or grouping) problem are essential to practical recognition systems Earlier work, using both formal analysis and experimental studies {22: 1% 27|v has shown thai the complexity of many approaches to recognition are dramatically reduced if decent selection is provided, and that the false positive/false negative rates for such methods are also significantly unproved with food selection.
One advantage of forming on the issue of selection for recognition is that it provides constraints on the requirements of enrty processing stages For example, cue* %nrh as color or texture are often considered from the viewpoint of extracting object surface measurement*, which requires chat one account for illumination and mlwf scene effects in inverting the image measurements to obtain object parameters If one simply wants to use thes** cues to separate regions of an image likely to have come from a single object, much less stringent requirement* are placed on the task, leading to simpler and ho|»efull> more robust algorithms.
Towards this end. Tan veer Syeda»Mahmood has recently completed a Ph.D. thesis (46] that explore tin-role of cues such as color and texture in selectnjii for recognition. She does this by developing and implementing a computational model of visual attention, which serves as a general purpose selection mechanism in a recognition system.
The approach supports two modes of attentional behavior, namely attracted attention and pag-attenluni modes. The attracted attention mode of behavior i> spontaneous and is commonly exhibited by an unbiased observer (i.e., with no a priori intentions) when some object or some aspect of the scene attracts his/her attention, while the latter is a more deliberate behavior exhibited by an observer looking at a scene with a prion goals (such as the task of recognizing an object, say) and hence paying attention to only those objects/aspects >>f a scene that are relevant to the goal.
Briefly, the model suggests that the scene represented by the image be processed by a set of interacting feature
49