arc extraction algorithms which operate on groups of pixels and which output arc parameters such as center, radius, and endpoints in addition to the width of the original arc.
What we need is the machine vision analog of a system's engineering methodology. This methodology can be encapsulated in a protocol which has a modeling component, a theoretical error propagation component, an experimental component, and a data analysis component. The next section describes in greater detail these components of an image analysis engineering protocol.
3 Protocol
The modeling component of the protocol consists of a description of the world of ideal images, a description of a random perturbation model by which non-ideal images arise, and a specification of the criterion function by which the difference between the ideal output and the computed output arising from the imperfect input can be quantified. The experimental component describes the experiments performed under which the data relative to the performance characterization can be gathered. The analysis component describes what analysis must be done on the experimentally observed data to determine the performance characterization. The theoretical error propagation component is a theoretical analysis which determines an approximation of the characteristics of the random perturbation on the output as a function of the random perturbation on the input.
3.1 Image Generation
This part of the protocol describes how, in accordance with the specified model, a suitably random, independent, and representative set of images from the population of ideals is to be acquired or generated to constitute the sampled set of images. This aquisition can be done by taking real images under the specified conditions or by generating synthetic images. If the population includes, for example, a range of sizes of the object of interest or if the object of interest can appear in a variety of situations, or if the object shape can have a range of variations, then the sampling mechanism must assure that a reasonable number of images are sampled with the object appearing in sizes, orientations, and shape variations throughout its permissible range. Similarly, if the object to be recognized or measured can appear in a variety of different lighting conditions which create a similar variety in shadowing, then the sampling must assure that images are acquired with the lighting and shadowing varying throughout its permissible range.
Some of the variables used in the image generation process are ones whose values will be estimated by the computer vision algorithm. We denote these variables by z1}. . . ,zk. Other of these variables are nuisance variables. Their values provide for variation. The performance characterization is averaged over their values.
4