Department of Pharmacology St. Mary's Hospital Medical School (Uaisertit? of Loa4oa) Norfolk riac*
London
W2 IFC
Telephone: Ot-723 £232



10th March I9IS
Dr. Sheldon C. Sottacrs
*X>. Box 1115
Alpine
New Jersey
07610
USA
Dear Ck«rlk,
Since returning to London. my coll«t|M licit)* Pont in «»4 I have fives more ibovskt to how best to capitalise apoa the studies oa ttigli a«4 ls» faasittsl fiak of lung cancer which are jnat betas Ml up with Hsary Lynch Sinee Of. Lynch «UI be taking the trouble of mounting the field studies la vt#a»t types of liit"* aad Tow* risk cancer pedigrees, I feel stroagly that we should M mbm the opportunity of establishing imnsortal cell lines oa each of the SCO tabjsets wfclca we win study Sack is my coavktioa that I believe these studies tlosM W started Immediately said not cans trained by my aove to Newesstle. Here is my proposal
Omaha will be rec rait lag subjects, each phsaotyped will debrisooaine im : they will fall iaio four groups of aqua I sise; sporadic tasg cancers erith ao wkt cancer family history (tow* risk), sporadic lung caacera with poeUivs caacer family history, colon cancer-prone families with high sad low family histories These latter two types of pedigree sre very interesting from ike following potat of view, thst of the 2000 members of the 10 kindreds, there Is oaty qac haowa case of laag caacer. Immortalised EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid ll-cetl lines will provide a future resource for studying the moleculsr generics of lung cancer risk. We are already looking In cohorts with cONA probes and RPLPanalysie for various P450 polymorphisms which we believe may bear upon long cancer risk. At relatively small additioaal cost (supplemented by CTft?) Dr. Lynch could mail us small batches of fresh blood for D-ccl! transformation. I cannot sec how this should add more than about $5 to the cost of each sample collection, or $2000 in lorn, but he needs to be asked. At our end we shall need Ms. Pontin's salary with oa-coets. (S45,000 for 1ft months) together with consumable costs for cell transformation, culture and cryopreservatlon of $75 per cell line (</. $500 NIH contracted - out cost!), $30,000. In addition, we would need to purchase a liquid nitrogen Dewar for storing the cell lines ($1600). The tola I cost of the project for the first year would thus be $51,600 (2/3 $45,000 * 2/3 $30,000 + $1,600).
Profaeaor of Biochemical Pharmacology
Reader In Drue Mefcaballam ftMdtr in Pharmacogenetics Lecturar In Pharmacology (Toxicology) Lecturer In Pharmacology
Robert L Smith John Caldwell Jeffrey R Idle Stephen O Mitchell J Martin BUIott Lawrence A Waklle
Chief MLSO